# Assignment_GettingandCleaningData

## Background : : 
The data set for the exercise has been generated by an experiment, carried out with volunteers towards performance of a specific wearable. The experiment was carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.

## Objective :
The assignment is purported towards creating stepwise scripts for getting and cleaning the data gathered as part of the experiment. The cleaned data thus obtained shall be ready for further analysis.  
Creation of the script for cleaning the data is expected to be guided by the learnings during the course. 

## Methodology : 
The exercise is undertaken with details as follows :
1.	Data extraction into local directory. 
2.	Data evaluation for understanding the dimensions and properties of the data 
3.	Undertake sub assignments :
3.a.	Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
3.b.	Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
3.c.	Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
3.d.	Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
3.e.	From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
 
4.	Scripts created at each steps as per the learnings and directions provided during the course. 
5.	As suggested each step of script has been evaluated for its accuracy, completeness and effectiveness.
